if you're a field marketer speccing out
your sponsorship spend
well hold on to your scanners and pop
your banners because this conversation
with jason lemkin got a little sassy
to the cloud
welcome to boom a show about the
innovation explosion
in events and the tech stack i'm ben i'm
the co-founder and ceo of splash
splash is an event marketing software
for your live virtual
and hybrid events today i'm talking to
jason lemkin he's the ceo of
saster he's an investor an entrepreneur
and an event planner
that's a rare combination the guy has a
unique and sharp perspective on
everything tech
and everything events saster annual has
been
the conference at the center of the
cloud revolution
saster was started in 2012 as a blog
they hosted their first conference in
2015 and now they claim the world's
largest community of sas
executives founders and entrepreneurs
saster was one of the first conferences
to cancel due to the pandemic but has
bounced back with a fully online
conference this december
which is set to welcome 50 000 attendees
i had a conversation with jason lemkin
and i pulled some of the highlights of
the conversation here
i think you're gonna love it we talk
about things from a perpendicular event
all the way to what is next in the
collaboration suite
let's get into the conversation jason
great to see you
thanks for joining us on boom okay first
question
as you look towards the future how do
you expect digital events will continue
to evolve
i don't think saster or dreamforce
or any of these things are going to be
replaced on its own by digital okay and
we can talk about why
but what has happened as the tools have
been brought forward a decade
is you can have user conferences you can
have customer conferences you can have
prospect conferences on the internet
that you wouldn't you couldn't have in
the real world it's too expensive it's
too complicated
i think the big events will have
a much better digital component than
they ever did it will be on steroids
okay and that will be all fired through
software right um a few folks like web
summit will build their own and everyone
else will buy
okay much more functionality not live
streaming
an order of magnitude more functionality
for the big events and then
digital only events will not replace
irl events like they have since covid
they will be better they will be richer
they will connect more people they will
have
more content more interactions the truly
great digital events were worth it
right and so everyone's going to try to
do that right and you're going to need
tools and software because the crappy
stuff we had before march none of it did
it
right none of it did it okay next
question as you look post pandemic
what's your expectation for how event
formats or event planners will need to
evolve
they will have perpendicular events
going forward
so they will not have a hybrid event
which is
live streaming like that didn't work no
one tuned in the engagement sucked
right instead you will have a
perpendicular product
where it's not live streaming it's the
rest of your community
it's the other of the 15 000 people that
can attend faster we want to have 100
truly a hundred thousand to ten
digitally next year and it won't be the
same
they're not going to get to bump into
people in the hallways are they they're
not gonna have the same experience with
with the round tables and the meetups
and the jobs board
and the parties and the the meet zendesk
in person
and they're not going to have that and
that's okay but they'll have a different
experience that will also be rich that's
why it's not hybrid to me it's this
perpendicular experience where we it's
more work now next year
there'll be more work because you will
have to have this horizontal
perpendicular content for the rest of
your community
and the only way you'll be able to keep
up is with tools with software
so i'm curious as this is a show for
event marketers
have you seen any new trends or
evolutions in the event tech stack that
are worth noting
workplace collaboration internal is big
but external is really big too right
external collaboration is
a huge part of it and the fact that that
would
meld with event software was something
no one you know predicted before covet
open up open up your your your your
gmail especially even on your phone if
you're on an android device like me you
know what's there google me
right um zoom is getting into events
right
and why is zoom get into events because
it wants to do session registration and
it
[Laughter]
no it's because digital events crossed
over into collaboration software
right that's why microsoft teams has
limited events capability now right
because we never thought of event
software as collaboration software
before covid
right that's what's powerful and that's
there will be m
a there there will be big m a there um
there will be activity there i don't
know whether that really drove blue
jeans or whether that was an
opportunistic
attempt to compete with zoom without
doing the work but we would have never
thought of event software as collaborate
maybe you did but very few of us would
have thought of as collaboration
software before
right okay next question jason as you
have looked at the sponsorship game
evolve in a digital first world
what have you learned any strategies you
can share with us i did not know this
until
march of this year i've been doing
strangle for since 2015. i didn't i did
not know until march of this year why
sponsors sponsor
in cloud 40 of leads come from
40 everyone gripes every field marketer
gripes about every event
from dream forest on down they gripe
about everything but they need to deploy
the capital because it works
it works does it work perfectly does it
work as elegantly as
as a google adwords no but people go
buyers go to events buyer goes to events
to learn
and buyers go to events to talk to
someone they've only talked to or resume
and buyers go to events to make
decisions at first we saw disaster
our first two events we had no revenue
we had no sponsors
to events because budgets were present
right and then by our third one they're
like digital events
suck but we'll try it um then by the
fourth one we're like we can
get you thousands of leads and they're
like well
blah blah blah blah digital events like
well where else am i gonna get it
so you gotta try and then they see that
it performs right
so you need to deliver deck and breadth
and digital you need to deliver the
prospects
and you need to deliver more of them and
you need to understand why because even
if you deliver high quality prospects
it's still not the same as talking to
ben in the booth okay
it's not it might be better because i
get to talk with the ceo
over a zoom instead of talking to an sdr
in a booth it might be better but it is
different so you need depth and breadth
now one thing we don't do that everyone
does that's smaller is they give you all
the leads
like we have 800 people sign up we'll
give you all the emails is that worth
anything
no you want intent so we only give folks
the leads like a booth
that say hey i want to come to the to
talk with this sponsor
but they all have intent and this lack
of intent
is destroying the notion of a lead for
digital events no one
people think they want the list but they
don't want the list they want a list
that wants their product
okay so what are the top field marketers
doing to drive roi
and to get results there's two
strategies for events right and
you can do both but only if you do both
you can do
you can go deep and do a couple events
in your industry right
and you see it at dreamforce at least
you used to people would invest massive
amounts of money you would see it at rsa
you would see it at you can see to some
extent at web summit um
and you see it at shop talk for
e-commerce people go all in on one or
two events right
and then you can blow a million bucks or
more including soft costs right easily
right
or you do at the everywhere strategy i'm
going to be at everything because
yeah maybe i'll only have the smallest
booth at shop talk but i'll be at every
e-commerce event
in the industry so my all of my
prospects will see me right and
marketers have different strategies
you've got to do what you're good at and
so i think for digital it's the same but
on steroids
right you either got to pick a couple
things and
lean in deeply but lean in even more
get your brand all over get in front of
everybody
or be everywhere and really nickel and
dime it because you may see lower roi
like anything in events if you don't put
in the effort in you don't get the
effort out
if it doesn't provide value to ceos or
founders we won't take their money
it doesn't work maybe it works for other
people it doesn't work for us we can
give you the data it doesn't work we
don't allow it
but one has slipped in and it was the
worst performing thing we've done at all
levels
okay so i think i'm hearing you say that
net net
you see a bright future for digital and
virtual events
it's still early days it's still early
days right but but i think i don't even
like that even though we're stuck
it's like i don't like the term sas or
clouds digital events and don't make
sense either but we're stuck with the
term
but i don't know i'm not convinced
they're events yet i believe they're
gatherings
a gathering could be bigger on the
internet this is so what we learned from
social media
a gathering can be bigger right so your
your digital event should be bigger and
better than your irl event
big thanks to jason lemkin we got a ton
of downloads everything from new
thoughts on the collaboration suite to
perpendicular events
a term i have never heard but i'm
planning on tweeting and using seven
times
tomorrow if you like what you heard
today make sure to share this with an
event professional you love
like subscribe and come check us out
next time as we
explore the innovation explosion in
events
in the tech stack see you then
[Music]
you